Article 35
Settings for areas outside television coverage
1. The Ministry of Digital Governance may finance all costs for the supply, installation, operation, upgrade and maintenance of Supplementary Coverage Stations (S.S.K.), including the cost of licensing the construction of antennas, which are installed with the aim of serving the television coverage needs of the local population in areas of the Greek territory that do not have satisfactory access to a terrestrial digital broadcasting signal, in accordance with the provisions in force on state aid. The above costs are covered in the context of relevant actions, by the Public Investment Program.

2. The determination of the areas, as well as the optimal method and sequence of their coverage, is carried out following a study by the General Secretariat of Telecommunications and Posts (GSPT) of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which assumes the role of the central coordination body for the implementation of the individual actions.

3. Upon request of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, the National Network of Technology and Research Infrastructures (NTRI) may undertake, as implementing body, the awarding process, preparation, administration and management of the necessary contracts for the implementation of the said actions.

4. The responsible party for the installation, commissioning, use and maintenance of the Supplementary Coverage Stations is the selected digital terrestrial broadcasting network provider, which has been awarded the rights to use the radio frequencies used by the S.S.K. in accordance with the provisions of the applicable legislation.

5. The joint decision under reference Είκ.14177 EX/14.5.2021 of the Ministers of Development and Investment, Interior, Digital Governance, State and the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister (B' 2066), on ensuring access of permanent residents of Areas Outside Television Coverage to the programs of Greek free-to-air television stations with national coverage, is repealed upon publication hereof.