Article 39
Textbooks Textbook Register Digital Library of Textbooks Amendment to par. 5, 6, 7, 17 and 20 and addition of par. 23 and 24 to article 84 of Law 4823/2021
1. In par. 5 of article 84 of law 4823/2021 (A' 136), on the writing of textbooks, a textbook register and a digital library of textbooks, the last paragraph is deleted, and par. 5 is worded as follows:

"5. For the writing of the textbooks of par. 1 for inclusion in the M.D.B. and the P.B.D.B., an invitation for expressions of interest is issued by the Minister of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports, following a recommendation from the I.E.P., which is posted on the website of the Ministry of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports, the I.E.P., the I.T.Y.E. "DIOFANTOS" and the Greek Book Association and which specifically mentions the specifications and characteristics of the books, the scientific and pedagogical conditions for inclusion, the timetable and the procedure for submitting applications and deliverables by interested parties. The specifications and technical characteristics relating to the printing or digital version of the delivered books are recommended by the I.T.Y.E. "DIOFANTOS"."

2. Paragraph 6 of article 84 of Law 4823/2021, on the evaluation of textbooks, is replaced as follows:

"6. Following completion of the public call for interest process and approval of the participation applications, participants upload to the digital book submission system of FORTH "DIOFANTOS": a) the textbook in all the provided digital formats, b) the digital supplementary material (learning objects), c) the digital pre-print material and d) the metadata of all necessary elements. The evaluation of submitted textbooks is carried out by scientific committees, established per subject, in two (2) stages of control: a) completeness, where proposals containing obvious errors and shortcomings are rejected, and b) quality, with criteria determined based on specifications and characteristics of scientific and pedagogical suitability, in order to enable the assessment, in particular, of the scientific, pedagogical and didactic validity of the book and other educational material, the encouragement of student initiative and aesthetic taste, as well as specifications related to the technical characteristics of the books, such as dimensions, visual material and standardization parameters. During the evaluation stage of the submitted textbooks, the evaluation committee may set exclusive deadlines for the participants to complete, specialize or send clarifications of any kind, the failure to do so will lead to their rejection.

3. In par. 7 of article 84 of law 4823/2021 on textbook evaluation committees, the following amendments are made: a) in the first paragraph the word “consist” is replaced by the word “formed” and b) in the second paragraph after the words “in the control” the words “completeness and quality of par. 6, with control” are added and par. 7 is worded as follows:

"7. The scientific committees of par. 6 are formed by members of the teaching staff, teachers and other scientists with increased qualifications and knowledge in the scientific and pedagogical subject of the books. The work of these committees is assisted by experts, with regard to the completeness and quality control of par. 6, by checking compliance with the specifications and technical characteristics relating to the printing or digital version of the books to be delivered. The members of the scientific committees and the experts are not related to the writing process of the books under inclusion. The formation of the scientific committees and the selection of the experts is carried out by the Board of Directors (BoD) of the IEP, upon its invitation. For the evaluation of the experts, the committees and executives of the I.T.Y.E. "DIOFANTOS" participate. The term of office of the members of the scientific committees ends after the ministerial decisions to include the books in the M.D.B. and P.B.D.B. become final and unassailable.”

4. Paragraph 17 of article 84 of Law 4823/2021, on the procedure for writing textbooks, is replaced as follows:

"17. If the process of writing textbooks and their inclusion in the M.D.B. and the P.B.D.B. proves fruitless or there are not at least two approved applications for participation per course or, during the stage of completeness evaluation according to the second paragraph of par. 6, the remaining proposals for scientific evaluation fall short of two (2), or it concerns the inclusion of textbooks in the M.D.B. and in the PSB, which correspond to subjects of vocational education and special education, by decision of the Minister of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports, following a recommendation from the IEP, it is possible, alternatively, even before the completion of a previous call for expressions of interest: a) the partial repetition of the call to cover the remaining courses, b) the issuance of a new, full or partial, call for expressions of interest, in order to have at least two (2) textbooks per course, with similar or different terms from the previous call, c) the assignment of writing to groups of teachers, consisting of teachers serving in the IEP or seconded to the IEP. for this writing or by other scientists with increased qualifications and knowledge or d) the assignment of writing, in compliance with the provisions of Law 4412/2016 (Government Gazette A' 147), to natural or legal persons or the conclusion of programmatic contracts for this purpose, between the IEP and the AEI. Special provisions for the textbooks of vocational education and special education remain in force.

5. In par. 20 of article 84 of law 4823/2021, on textbooks, textbook register, digital library of textbooks, the following amendments are made: a) the words “according to their competence” are deleted, b) after the word “criteria” the words “of textbooks” are added, c) after the second mention of the words “more specific conditions”, the words “the submission and examination procedure, as well as the control bodies” are replaced by the words “submission of an expression of interest and an application to participate in the calls for interest of par. 5, the procedure for submitting and evaluating textbooks, as well as the evaluation bodies”, d) the words “of the call for expression of interest of par. 5 and” are deleted and following legislative improvements, par. 20 is worded as follows

"20. By decision of the Minister of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports, issued following recommendations from the IEP and the ITYE "DIOFANTOS", the procedures for the creation, establishment, operation and technical support of the MDB and the PSDB are determined, the more specific conditions, specifications, characteristics and criteria of the textbooks, as well as the procedure for inclusion, modification, change and exclusion of textbooks in the MDB and the PSDB, the more specific conditions for submitting an expression of interest and an application for participation in the calls for interest as well as the content of the calls of par. 5, the procedure for submitting and evaluating textbooks, as well as the bodies for evaluating administrative appeals against decisions on inclusion, exclusion and determination of the reference price, the content of the agreements of par. 9, the more specific structure and organization of the M.D.B. and the P.B.D.B., the data registered in the M.D.B. for each specific book, as well as any other more specific issue concerning the application of this article.”

6. In article 84 of Law 4823/2021 on textbooks, textbook register, digital library of textbooks, paragraphs 23 and 24 are added as follows:

"23. By decision of the Minister of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports, following recommendations from the IEP and the ITYE "DIOFANTOS", every issue related to the mode of operation and the scope of the scientific committees of par. 6 and the groups of par. c) of par. 17 is regulated. By a similar decision, every necessary detail for the commencement of the implementation of this, the procedure and the conditions for the use of the textbooks that have been included in the M.D.B. and P.V.D.B. is determined.

24. Approved bodies, which participated in the call for expressions of interest of the Minister of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports under reference 46978/Γδ4/25.4.2023, which have posted all or part of the evaluated material on the platform of the I.T.Y.E. "DIOFANTOS" within the deadline, but its final submission was not completed for any reason, may, within ten (10) days from the publication of this, definitively post the material, with the only condition being the presentation of a certificate from the I.T.Y.E. "DIOFANTOS" certifying the submission of part or all of the material on the relevant platform of the I.T.Y.E. "DIOFANTOS" before the expiry of the final deadline for posting the evaluated material. If the above approved participants have uploaded the necessary material on the relevant platform within the deadline, but this does not correspond to the total evaluated material of the textbooks, in relation to that included in their approved application for participation, they may, within ten (10) days from the publication of this and without further formality, submit their remaining material. If the above approved participants have uploaded incorrect material within the deadline, but by mistake, or material that requires necessary corrections or improvements, they may, within ten (10) days from the publication of this and without further formality, resubmit the material with the necessary corrections. The last paragraph of par. 6 also applies to proposals submitted in accordance with this.