article 30 does not affect the responsibilities of N.A.K. or ADAE, based on the applicable general or specific provisions of national, EU and international legislation.

CHAPTER EIGHT
EMBARGOING, TRANSITIONAL, FINAL AND REPEAL PROVISIONS
Article 30
Authorizing provisions
1. By joint decision of the Ministers of Digital Governance and Interior, it is possible to postpone the entry into force of sub-paragraph fb) of paragraph f) of paragraph 2 of article 3.

2. a) By a joint decision of the Minister of Digital Governance and the relevant Minister, which is issued following an opinion from the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, other public or private sector bodies may be included in the scope of application of this Article 3 and any specific issue for their inclusion may be determined.

b) By a similar decision, specific entities carrying out activities in the fields of national security, public order, defence or law enforcement, including activities related to the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, or which provide services exclusively to the public administration entities referred to in paragraph 6 of Article 3, may be exempted from the scope of Article 3 from the obligations laid down in Articles 15 or 16, in respect of such activities or services. Where entities carry out activities or provide services exclusively of the type referred to in the first paragraph of this Article, they may be exempted from the obligations laid down in Articles 4 and 19 under the terms and conditions laid down in the joint ministerial decision referred to in the first paragraph of this Article.

c) By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the cases of paragraph 2 of article 3 may be specified.

3. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, which shall be issued no later than four (4) months from the entry into force of this Regulation, the list of article 4 shall be drawn up for the key and important entities as well as the entities providing domain name registration services, which shall be reviewed and, where appropriate, updated on a regular basis and at least every two (2) years.

4. By decision of the Minister of Digital Governance, a digital platform is created for the registration of basic and important entities, other methods of their registration are defined, the terms, procedure, details and the possibility of extending the registration deadline are determined, as well as the templates for submitting the information referred to in paragraph 3 of article 4 and paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 19.

5. By a decision of the Minister of Digital Governance issued within six (6) months from the entry into force of this Law, following an opinion from the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the National Cybersecurity Strategy of article 7 is approved. By a similar decision, the National Cybersecurity Strategy and the Action Plan for its implementation are updated, which constitutes an integral part thereof.

6. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, which is issued within four (4) months from the entry into force of this Act, the capabilities, means, fixed assets, human resources and procedures that can be used in the event of a crisis pursuant to article 9 are determined.

7. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, which is issued within six (6) months from the entry into force of this and approved within an exclusive period of one (1) month by the Coordination Committee for Cybersecurity issues of article 23 of law 5002/2022 (Government Gazette A' 228), the national plan for responding to large-scale incidents and crises in cyberspace of paragraph 2 of article 9 of this is drawn up.

8. By decision of the Minister of Digital Governance and the competent Minister, as the case may be, which is issued after an opinion from the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, other CSIRTs may be designated within the framework of article 10, if deemed necessary to achieve a high level of cybersecurity, taking into account the technical capabilities required for the performance of the relevant tasks.

9. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, special response teams may be established to deal with incidents in the field of cybersecurity of article 10. Specifically for dealing with incidents in organizations of paragraph f) of paragraph 2 of article 3, the response team is established by joint decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority and the Director of the National Intelligence Service.

10. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, specific measures, procedures and means shall be taken to ensure the anonymity of persons reporting the vulnerability in accordance with paragraph 2 of article 12.

11. By decision of the Minister of Digital Governance and the relevant Minister supervising the respective body and, in the event of non-exercise of supervision, the highest administrative body of the relevant body, it is possible to designate authorities, bodies, services or organic units of the public administration with regulatory and supervisory responsibilities in individual sectors of Annexes I and II of this part, as sectoral points of contact and cooperation at national level with the National Cybersecurity Authority (National Sectorial Focal Points, NSFPs) in accordance with article 13.

This decision determines: a) any specific issue related to the cooperation between the National Cybersecurity Authority and the NSFP, in particular in the context of the mutual exchange of information, coordinated supervision, effective implementation, monitoring and feedback of the national strategic planning and the establishment of more specific cybersecurity measures for the relevant sector,

b) any specific issue related to the cooperation of the relevant services in matters of management and investigation of cybersecurity incidents, as well as crisis management.

12. By a joint decision of the Ministers of Digital Governance, Education, Religious Affairs and Sports and Labor and Social Security, which is issued after an opinion of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the procedures, the duration of training, the qualifications of the trainers, the educational material, the possibility of granting certification by the National Cybersecurity Authority and any other matter relevant to the implementation of paragraph 2 of article 14 are determined. By the same decision, the above training may be made mandatory for employees of the key and important entities that are competent, in accordance with their respective organization charts or the relevant decisions assigning tasks for the cybersecurity of the said entities.

13. a. By decision of the Minister of Digital Governance, the national framework of cybersecurity requirements is determined, which includes the technical, operational and organizational measures for managing the cybersecurity risks of paragraph 2 of article 15, which are taken by the key and important entities.

b. By decision of the Minister of Digital Governance, every necessary detail relating to the qualifications, duties, incompatibilities and obligations of the Information and Communications Systems Security Officers (ICSSOs) of paragraph 5 of article 15 for categories of entities falling within the scope of this law shall be determined.

14. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the standardized template is determined according to which the unified cybersecurity policy is prepared by the entities of the first paragraph of par. 5 of article 15, which is evaluated and approved by the National Cybersecurity Authority.

15. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the details of the implementation of article 15 are regulated, and specifically:

a) any issue related to the preparation, evaluation and approval of the unified cybersecurity policy, in particular issues related to the submission of a unified cybersecurity policy by significant entities, as well as the methodology and standards for recording and prioritizing tangible and intangible information and communication assets,

b) the suitability and specificity of the measures of the national framework of cybersecurity requirements in accordance with paragraph 2 of article 15 hereof, their technical and methodological requirements, taking into account the implementing acts issued by the European Commission in accordance with paragraph 5 of article 21 of Directive 2022/2555, based on the characteristics of the entities.

16. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the conditions and necessary details for the classification of an incident as significant in accordance with article 16 may be specified, as well as the individual details for the procedure for reporting and managing security incidents, without prejudice to the relevant implementing acts of the European Commission.

17. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the provisions of paragraph 6 of article 15 may be carried out.

18. By joint decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority and the President of the National Telecommunications and Post Commission of article 6 of law 4070/2012 (Government Gazette A' 82), the terms and procedures for the publication of the policies and procedures of paragraph 3 of article 20 are determined. A similar decision may determine the terms and procedures for the publication of the necessary data, as well as any other matter relevant to the implementation of article 20.

19. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, measures and actions are provided for the exchange of information in the field of cybersecurity referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 21, as well as supporting measures for the implementation of these regulations, in accordance with the policies referred to in paragraph h) of paragraph 2 of article 7. The above measures and actions may specify operational elements, including the use of specific information and communication technology (ICT) platforms and automation tools, the content and terms of the information exchange arrangements, taking into account any guidelines issued by the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity (ENISA) pursuant to paragraph 5 of article 29 of Directive 2022/2555. The same or similar decision shall determine the terms and details of the participation of the entities referred to in paragraph f) of paragraph 2 of article 3 in the regulations of article 21, on the exchange of information in the field of cybersecurity.

20. By a joint decision of the Ministers of National Economy and Finance and Digital Governance, which is issued after an opinion of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority within three (3) months from the entry into force of this Regulation, the amount, criteria and procedure for payment of the supervision fee and the audit fee of paragraph 1 of article 23 are determined, any exceptions from their imposition, any issue related to the management and payment of the above fees and charges, as well as the amount of compensation for the bodies participating in the audit process, including certified inspectors and certified technical experts, in accordance with article 23.

21. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, control and inspection tasks are assigned, pursuant to article 23, to persons certified by the same Authority ("certified inspectors"), in accordance with the Control and Supervision Regulation of the National Cybersecurity Authority. By a similar decision, for the more effective exercise of the supervisory work of the National Cybersecurity Authority, it is possible to designate persons who meet the requirements of the Control and Supervision Regulation of the National Cybersecurity Authority as certified technical experts (Subject Matter Experts, SMEs) for the contribution of specialized expertise concerning information and communication systems and technologies.

22. By decision of the Governor of the National Cybersecurity Authority, which shall be issued within three (3) months from the entry into force of this Regulation, the Control and Supervision Regulation of the National Cybersecurity Authority of Article 23 is approved, which regulates the control and supervision methodology and the required procedures based on the risk-based approach, the bodies exercising control and supervision, the powers, incompatibilities and conflict of interest issues of these bodies, the qualifications of certified inspectors and certified technical experts, the periodicity of controls and on-site verifications of the unified cybersecurity policies of key and significant entities, in compliance with the principles of risk-based supervision, as well as any other matter related to Articles 24 and 25.

23. By a joint decision of the Ministers of National Economy and Finance, Interior and Digital Governance, which is issued after an opinion of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the terms, conditions and procedure for imposing the fines of article 26 are determined, taking into account at least the elements of par. 7 of article 24, the possibility of imposing periodic financial sanctions and the cases in which the amount of the fine may be adjusted, as well as the terms, conditions and procedure for collecting and paying the fines of article 26.

24. By decision of the Director of the National Cybersecurity Authority, the entities of article 4 that fall within the scope of sub-paragraph ab) of paragraph a) of paragraph 2 of