Article 38
Local invitation for the recruitment of temporary substitute teachers Addition of article 63A to Law 4589/2019
After article 63 of law 4589/2019 (A' 13), article 63A is added, as follows:

"Article 63A Local invitation for the recruitment of temporary substitute teachers

1. Teachers may be hired as temporary substitutes, full-time or part-time, with a fixed-term employment relationship under Private Law and with a maximum duration until the end of the academic year, after the issuance of the call for expressions of interest in par. 2, provided that: a) the procedure of article 86 of Law 4547/2018 (A' 102) has been followed and b) there are operational needs for teaching positions in primary and secondary education school units in specific areas of the country, which cannot be covered by the ranking lists of the Supreme Personnel Selection Council (ASEP) due to the exhaustion of candidates.

2. By means of an invitation to express interest issued by the Regional Director of Education, following an opinion from the Director of Education, which is posted in the Diavgeia program and on the websites of the Ministry of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports, the Regional Directorate of Education and the Directorate of Education, candidates are invited to submit an application to school units in the areas of appointment under the responsibility of the relevant Directorate of Education. The local invitation specifies the advertised positions of par. 1 per school unit, per sector/specialty, the hours of employment, the recruitment procedure and the exclusive deadline for submitting the application.

3. Candidates who possess the formal qualifications for admission and appointment in the relevant branch/specialty and are not included in the current A.S.E.P. ranking lists may participate in the application process. Candidates are ranked in selection lists by branch/specialty based solely on the grade of their degree. In the event of equal grades of the degrees, candidates with the oldest degree take precedence according to the date of its award. In the event that the degrees have been awarded on the same date, then the ranking is based on the age of registration of the candidates in the Integrated Information System for Personnel Management of Primary and Secondary Education (O.P.S.Y.D.). In particular, primary and secondary education teacher candidates with specialization in Special Education (SEE) are ranked in the selection evaluation tables based only on the grade of their basic degree, but in the event of equality of degrees, candidates with the oldest special formal qualification for inclusion in the SEE branch take precedence. For kindergarten teachers and SEE teachers, the ranking is carried out uniformly for candidates in branches PE61 and PE60 with specialization in SEE and PE 71 and PE 70 with specialization in SEE, respectively. Otherwise, paragraph d) of paragraph 4 of article 58 applies. The application serves as a solemn declaration of article 8 of law 1599/1986 (Government Gazette 75) for the information contained therein. The selection evaluation tables are valid until the end of the academic year. When submitting applications, candidates confirm that they do not fall under par. 5A of article 62, on the exclusion of teachers and members of the Special Educational Service or Special Educational Service who have been appointed or are being appointed by a new appointment or recruitment for three (3) years, and par. 5A of article 63, on the exclusion of teachers and members of the Special Educational Service or Special Educational Service who are hired as substitutes and refuse to take up service or resign, during the year of recruitment and the following school year, of this Law, as well as par. 4 of article 86 of law 4547/2018, on the exclusion of teachers and members of the Special Educational Service or Special Educational Service who are hired as substitutes following a special invitation and refuse to take up service or resign, during the year of recruitment and the following school year.

4. The selection evaluation tables of par. 3 are prepared under the responsibility of the relevant Director of Education, are ratified by the Regional Director of Education and are posted on the websites of the Ministry of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports, the Regional Directorate of Education and the Directorate of Education.

A reform of the lists, which entails a reclassification of the candidates, is carried out by the relevant Director of Education and those not entitled to be hired based on the new classification are dismissed. Those dismissed receive the salaries provided for their employment up to the day of dismissal, without any compensation for this reason.

5. If the operational needs for teacher positions under paragraph 1 are not met and after the call for expressions of interest under paragraph 2, it is possible to recruit retired teachers who have not exceeded the age of sixty-seven (67), in accordance with the provisions herein.

6. The recruitment of teachers is carried out by the relevant Director of Education, according to the number of functional vacancies to be filled per sector/specialty, educational structure and level of education, which have been approved by a relevant act of the Minister of Education, Religious Affairs and Sports and regardless of the source of funding immediately after the posting of the evaluation lists of candidates in accordance with par. 3.

7. When additional operational needs arise for positions in a school unit and discipline/specialty that was included in the local call for expressions of interest in paragraph 2, those registered on the selection evaluation lists in paragraph 3, who have not already been hired, may be invited, throughout the academic year, to express interest in hiring.

8. The previous service acquired through the present procedure is not counted in the ranking procedure in order of priority announced and carried out by the A.S.E.P. in application of the provisions in force at each time, but is considered as actual public educational service and is taken into account after the permanent appointment in public education for any consequence."