Article 43
Urban railway licensing
1. a) For the commercial operation of an urban railway network or its extensions, an operating permit for the infrastructure and its systems is granted, under the responsibility of the competent Directorate of Fixed-Track Infrastructure, Maintenance and Safety (D14) of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, following a recommendation by HELLENIC METRO S.A.

b) For the granting of the permit referred to in paragraph a), the following are required: ba) certificate of commencement of activity and tax registration number for HELLENIC METRO S.A., bb) building permit for the project, bg) construction contractor certificate certifying that the works on the urban railway system under license have been completed and that all performance tests of the systems have been completed,

bd) certificate from HELLENIC METRO S.A. for the integrity, safety, functionality and reliability of the project systems within the framework of its responsibilities as contracting authority,

be) a certificate from an independent certification body for the operation of the urban railway network,

bf) general horizontal layout of the project, bg) declarations of conformity for the lifts, accompanied by the certificates issued by a notified body, as appropriate, within the framework of the conformity assessment procedure, as well as a certificate of registration of the lifts by the competent service of the relevant Municipality,

b) certificates of correct installation and operation (initial inspection) of type A' escalators and walkways, from a recognized inspection body for this purpose and

b) active fire protection certificate in accordance with article 8 of Fire Ordinance No. 13/2021 "Approval of Fire Ordinance No. 13/2021 on the subject: "Specification of the procedure for submitting the required supporting documents, checking and issuing administrative fire protection acts in enterprises and facilities, pursuant to article 167 of Law 4662/2020" (B' 5519)."

2. For the provision of passenger transport services via an urban railway network with the assumption of the operation and maintenance of this network by a public or private public service provider, a service provision license is granted, under the supervision of the competent Passenger Transport Directorate (D32) of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, following a recommendation by HELLENIC METRO S.A.

For the granting of the permit referred to in the first paragraph, the following are required:

a) a certificate from an independent certification body for the operation of the urban railway,

b) solemn declaration of undertaking the operation of the project,

c) certificate of commencement of activity and tax registration number for the operating company and

d) certificate of incorporation of the operating company. 

3. The scope of application of this Regulation excludes the railway project and facilities provided by the Hellenic Railways Organization, its subsidiaries, its affiliated companies, the infrastructure and operation companies of the railway network and any other public or private body of similar purpose.