Article 40
Maximum fee limit for doctors of the Special Body of Doctors of the Disability Certification Center Amendment to par. 3 and 4 of article 104 of Law 4961/2022
1. In the third paragraph of paragraph 3 of article 104 of Law 4961/2022 (Government Gazette A' 146), on the health committees of the Disability Certification Center of the Electronic National Social Security Institution, the words "The Public Health Care Structures (D.DFY.) and the National Organization for the Provision of Health Services (E.OPYY.)" are replaced by the words "The State bodies", and paragraph 3 is worded as follows:

"3. The health committees are established by specialty and meeting based on the submitted requests for an opinion and the main diseases in them, the location of the doctor, the residence of the applicant, the available specialties and the minor status of the applicant. In the case of an examination of a minor, the committee includes a doctor from the National Institute of Health with a specialty in pediatrics or another pediatric specialization, if available. Public bodies must allow the doctors serving them to participate in meetings of health committees, to which they have been appointed, at least five (5) days per month. The decision to appoint the health committee also appoints its chairman, who must hold a specialty corresponding to that of the committee."

2. In par. 4 of article 104 of law 4961/2022, on the compensation paid by the Electronic National Social Security Agency to doctors of the Special Body of Doctors, who participate in the meetings of the committees of the Disability Certification Center, the following amendments are made: a) in the second paragraph the words "To the doctors" are replaced by the words "To the members", b) at the beginning of the third paragraph the phrase "Evaluation requests are equally distributed among the doctors of the National Social Security Agency by category and specialty and", c) in the third paragraph: ca) the words "From November 1, 2024" are added and cb) the word "double" is replaced by the word "triple", d) a new fifth paragraph is added and following legislative improvements, par. 4 is formulated as follows:

"4. The doctors of the National Health Insurance Corporation and the secretaries of the health committees of the Hellenic Medical Association are paid by the e-EFKA compensation per assessed request, for which a final GA is issued. The members and secretaries of the Sampling Control Committee are paid by the e-EFKA compensation per controlled incident. The evaluation requests are equally distributed among the doctors of the National Health Insurance Corporation by category and specialty and the compensation hereof is paid in accordance with the joint decision of par. 5 of article 109. From November 1, 2024, the total amount of compensation cannot exceed three times the monthly maximum salary limit per year, as defined in par. 1 of article 28 of law 4354/2015 (Government Gazette A' 176). Exceptionally, the total amount of compensation per year may amount to five times the monthly maximum salary limit, as defined in par. 1 of article 28 of law 4354/2015, if the number of available, according to the KEPA Operating Regulation, doctors of the National Institute of Health with a specialization in rheumatology, neurology and psychiatry, is not sufficient for the timely evaluation of pending applications. For doctors of the National Institute of Health who travel outside their home country to perform their duties as president or member of the KEPA health committees, the e-EFKA pays the travel expenses (travel expenses, overnight expenses, daily allowance), which are paid in accordance with the provisions in force to public servants who travel outside their home country. The maximum annual travel limit is set at ninety (90) days."